---
layout: post
title:  "Thoughts of a traveller returning home"
date:   2015-04-23
categories: travel
---

Returning home after an extended period of time is never easy. Feelings range from that of sadness towards a trip ending, to one of **readiness**, and satisfaction of **a goal achieved** and dream fulfilled, to excitement about seeing friends and loved ones that you haven’t properly spoken to for the duration of your journey.

What combination of emotions you feel are unique to you because they come from a plethora of factors. Some include: how long you’ve been away, how far away **the place is**, what stage of life you are at, the amount of time for which you’d been planning the trip, and if you travelled with someone or alone. I can only speak from my very personal point of view from my recent year in Australia but I wanted to write about coming back after so long. Perhaps I can help you if you are in a similar position or if your friend is acting differently from how you remember them!

Mid-way through 2013 I knew I had progressed as far as I could in my London job. I knew I wanted to travel and spend a year abroad. Australia said: “sunshine, beaches, and relaxation.” to me. The working holiday visa was easy to get and it lasted 12 months. I didn’t want it to just be a year out and then to return to London. I wanted to be able to have a lifestyle whereby my work allowed me to be independent of a location. A year later I’m more convinced than ever that this is what I want.

When I returned to London in February 2015 I was ready. Ready to sleep in my own bed, eat home-cooked meals, see family and friends, and feel familiarity all around me. Having spent 13 months away from all this I surprised myself to crave these things. The truth is that it wasn’t the exploring and the almost constant **wow** factor I had experienced in my last 6 or 7 months that I was tired of. It was the living out of a bag, moving from place to place every few days, having to share kitchens with strangers, and other general things backpackers deal with. Of course, often this is great, but after such **a long time** I was done. I have had friends on a couple of occasions declare me crazy when I tell them I cut short a 2 week spell in Fiji. You know what? I’m **not** crazy (well, in this case), and I don’t regret it. I’d seen all I wanted and needed to see in 10 days. I’m not saying I’d seen and done everything, and I’d never be able to. There was an upside: I was getting to see family, including my baby cousin whom I was yet to meet, in California next and that meant more time with them. Personally there’s only so much time at the beach I can take and I’d been spoilt with it for months. I’m not making myself seem less crazy am I? I suppose my point is to let yourself dictate your life and be content with the decisions you make. No regrets and all that.

I was determined (and still am) to keep travelling as much as possible when I returned to London. Therefore I made sure I found work to refill the piggy bank and saw friends and family much more than I did before. This was brilliant as you can imagine. It was important to me to take advantage of not feeling  stagnant as I had little over a year before. Obviously it’s great to realise how much you’ve been missed and I felt a lot closer to most people than I had before. All I had to do was go away for a while* (*disclaimer: this does not mean you should abandon people)! Having so many people look up to you reinforces your belief in your own choices. The curious amongst my friends generally ask “so, what was your favourite place?” to which I have conditioned myself to answer “New Zealand”, and it is right up there but really I can’t choose. There is still so much to see.

Eventually, things go back to normal, which is only natural and the itchy feet kick in again. More so if you haven’t got something else lined up and organised. If, like me, you have discovered (which is very different from just seeing it on TV) a place where there is the possibility of having a better quality of life, it’s impossible to go back on that. I now feel more distant from some people and I think it is because I have moved on. What I felt when heading home was more than just itchy feet, it’s a desire to get the most out of life as possible. **We all set different criteria for this**, and one of the big ones for me is to see as much natural beauty as I can. It is really important to understand that even if people exclaim their jealousy that you don’t force your opinion or lifestyle choice on them. And to those that say how lucky I am I would say this is only partially true. It’s mainly my desire to travel and not have regrets that gets me out of the door. I am lucky enough that my line of work allows me work anywhere.

The likelihood is that if most of your friends back home are those that you have met outside of travels then you will not share the same criteria. If you feel stuck back home and nothing is particularly holding you there apart from a weird sense of “I should probably be sensible and settle here for while” then I would say you are holding yourself back! Most of us long for some direction to give us meaning to our lives. This is very powerful and I battle against “the system” all the time. Don’t feel guilty if travelling is this direction for you. Remember the rush you get climbing that mountain, seeing that amazing coastal view, or wombat in the wild. This won’t go away, acknowledge it and act on it. It will be the best thing you do. Changing your life doesn’t happen overnight, but knowing what you want is half the battle. I have been back in London for 2 months but before I even left Australia I had decided my next move: moving to France and learning French, whilst trying to make it as a freelancer. Doing both at once is tough, so I am giving myself a bit of a cushion where I am not working for the first month or so.

I do most of my travelling alone which can get lonely but I’d rather do that than sit around waiting for the opportunity to travel with someone. This new chapter of life is a work in progress and I’m sure I’ll gain a good routine and some more clarity in the coming months and years. The most important thing is I’m living how I want, and you can too.

One of the most powerful things I have learnt in the last year is that **anxiety all but disappears when you have a plan**. I have learnt this the hard way but I am going to continue having a next step planned for the foreseeable future!




